Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will continue to build the blog section of our Web site.
So up in the address bar, if I add on a blog at the end, here's the generic blog listing screen that
we created in our previous lesson.
And in this lesson, we're just going to continue building this out.
Now, the first thing that I want to focus on is pagination.
Now, by default, WordPress will show your ten most recent blog posts.
But what if we have more than 10 blog posts?
Well, then we would need some sort of pagination links down here that take you to the next 10 and the
next ten.
Now, at the moment, I only have four total blog posts.
And instead of going to create ten or 20 dummy posts right now to test out pagination, let me show
you what we can do.
Instead, if we jump in to our WordPress admin, lets look within the settings menu and then click on
the reading option.
So this field here blog pages show at most this controls how many blog posts get displayed per page.
So instead of ten, if I set this to two and then click save if we refresh our generic blog listing
screen.
Now scroll down a bit.
You can see that it only loads to blog posts, right?
So then we would want pagination links here to take you to the next two.
So let's go ahead and add those links right now.
Let's jump into our text editor and in your theme folder, Open Up Index Dot P and we want to add the
links at the bottom of the page.
So let's scroll down to the bottom of this template and let's add the links right before this final
closing div.
So that way the links are still horizontally centered within this container div.
So right above this closing div line, I want to write a bit of P now.
I could open up again, but I can see that it's already opening and closing here.
So why don't we just add a new line right below this line and now we're free to write whatever we want.
Now watch how easy it is to create pagination links.
We just echo out the results of a WordPress function named pagination underscore links.
That's all it takes.
So if we save that and refresh.
Perfect, so we are on the initial just blog page or in other words, were on the first or number one
page of results, but then you could click on to or next go to the next page of results.
So up in the euro now, you can see its blog page, too.
And this will show us to new blog posts.
And now that's it.
So there's no link to a third page and you can click one to go back or previous to go back to the first
page.
Or if we wanted to, we could create two new dummy posts and then there would indeed be a three to go
to the next page.
You get the idea.
But really, that's all there is to creating simple pagination links.
So now that we added that to the template and we tested it out, it works.
It looks good.
Let's go back into our WordPress settings and bump this back up from two to the default of 10 save changes.
Refresh the front end of our website so we don't see any pagination links because I don't have more
than 10 posts.
So pagination isn't needed.
But now we can rest assured, knowing that once we create enough blog posts, those links will work
just fine.
All right.
Now let's change gears.
And the next thing I want to work on is the single DOT template.
Right, because that's the template that's used.
If you click on one of these blog posts and visit the Eurail, that is for just one single particular
post.
Now we can immediately see that this template needs our attention.
Right.
Things don't look quite right.
So let's fix this up right here.
Right now, back in our text editor.
Let's jump into single dot p.
Let's begin by giving this template the same top banner area that all of our other templates use.
Now, we can save ourselves a lot of typing by just borrowing code from page dot because single and
page dot are very similar to one another.
One is used for individual posts and the others for individual pages.
So obviously we can borrow quite a bit from Page Dot.
So let's jump into that page file and let's begin by copying this page banner div into our clipboard.
And then back in single dot p, let's paste in that code right below this, the post line, right,
because this function, the post gets the relevant data ready.
So then right below that we can add whatever HTML we want before we paste in our clipboard.
We can actually go ahead and delete this heading level two and also this section where we are calling
the the content function.
OK, so now we can go ahead and paste in our clipboard.
That code will dynamically pull in the title of the current blog post.
So if we save that and refresh perfect, we've got the banner area and here is the real dynamic title
for now.
Don't worry about this subtitle.
We will implement that in a future lesson.
For now, let's focus on adding the actual content for this blog post.
So back in our text editor below this page banner div, we are going to want a new div that will horizontally
center our content and I don't expect us to memorize the class for that div so we can just jump in to
page dot p and here's that div that I'm referring to.
So it's got all of these classes that will apply the appropriate styling.
So let's just copy and paste this opening div into our clipboard and then jump back into the single
file that we are working on and then just paste in our clipboard right below this closing div.
Cool.
So we just opened up a new div.
Let's be sure to close that same div out and then within that div let's open up a new line and let's
do two things.
First, let's say metabolics will go here.
That's just a note to ourselves.
Will add that in, in just a moment from now.
And then below that line let's open up a brand new div, OK, and then close out the div and let's give
this new div a class of generic dash content, OK?
And within this new div is where I'm going to output the blog post content.
This generic content class will make sure that it gives the paragraphs and different heading levels
the perfect styling.
So within this div we can just drop in and use the function named the content.
Cool.
So if we save that and refresh, there's the dynamic body content for the post.
Now we just need to set up the metabolics.
And what I have in mind for the metabolics here is sort of a combination of what we see on the generic
blog listing screen.
Right.
Remember this beige metabolics that we set up here with the author, the date in the category.
Let's combine that with the metabolics we see on children pages.
So, for example, if I go up into the header and click on about us.
And then click on one of these children pages, remember here, this metabolics has a nice link that
takes you back to the previous page.
So on individual blog posts, this back link could say blog home and this beige area can have the author
the date in the category.
Cool.
So let me go back to an individual blog post screen.
Second test post and let's get to work on this metabolics.
So back in the text editor at the moment, I'm in single.
But let's jump over into page B and right below the page banner and then this generic container div
right below that.
This section is the metabolics.
Now, we don't need any of this at the beginning or the end.
We just want the actual div that represents that metabolics.
So go ahead and highlight from the opening div to this closing div and copy that to your clipboard and
then let's jump back into the single dot BHP file that we're working on.
And let's just replaced this metabolics will go here, line with our clipboard in case that in and then
you'll notice an eye element, that's what's creating the home icon.
Now, right after that icon is the text that says back to and then it would normally say the parent
page name.
But in our case, instead of saying back to a page, we want it to just say blog home.
So before we delete the words back to let's delete this P here that's responsible for getting the name
of the parent page.
So from the opening to the closing tags, let's delete that.
And now we can go ahead and replace this back to to just say log home.
OK, so that means that for this hyperlink, this element, we just updated the text that you click
on.
But now let's be sure to update the Eurail that defines where you should go when you click it.
So for the value of this attribute, we're already going into P, but let's just go ahead and delete
what's there.
This code will echo out the permalink for the parent page, but that's not what we want.
So let's delete that.
OK, so now I've just got a blank canvas for this RF value and we just want to point towards our main
generic blog listing U.
RL and remember, that's our domain and then slash blog.
So to output that, let's say, echo the results of a function named site, underscore you URL and that's
a function.
So parentheses and then quotes and now we can just say slash blog.
Cool.
And this function will make sure that the euro that's generated is absolute instead of relative.
So that way the link will work no matter where you're coming from.
OK, at this point, let's save that and see what it looks like.
Cool.
So we're almost there.
We've got blog home and if I click it, it takes me back to the blog listing screen.
And then if I click back on one of my blog posts, all we need to do now is instead of outputting the
title again here in the Bay Area, instead of that, let's output the author, the date and the category
for the blog post.
So we don't need to rewrite that code.
We can just copy and paste it.
Remember, we already wrote that code back in our index file, so jump into your index file.
And about halfway down in that file, we have a div with a class of metabolics.
Now we don't need to copy and paste that development, nor do we even need to copy and paste the p html
tag.
But we do just want to copy and paste all of the content that lives inside that P tag.
So copy from the word posted all the way to the end of this closing tag.
So I will copy that into my clipboard.
And then let's go back into the single file that we're working on.
Here's the metabolics div that we're focusing on, and all we need to do now is just delete this area
that's echoing out the title.
So now our cursor is simply within this spane element right here and just paste in your clipboard.
Perfect.
So that will give us the author the date in the category.
So save that and then refresh.
Perfect, and that means that our job of fixing up the single DOT template is complete.
Things are looking good now at this point, you might be wondering about this author link and this category
link.
So, for example, I assign to this blog post to a category named Awards.
And if I click on that awards link, notice up in the address bar that takes us to slash category slash
awards.
And this screen will only show blog posts from that category.
And you might be thinking to yourself, if we're on a category archive screen like this, do you really
want to say welcome to our blog or would it make more sense for this title text here to say awards category
archive or posts about awards or something along those lines?
Or for another example, back in the metabolics?
What about the author link?
So if I click on that link up in the address bar, we see author Brad and this screen obviously will
only show blog posts from that author.
And again, we would probably want this to say something like posts by Brad or author archives or something
custom.
Right.
Not just welcome to our blog.
Well, in our very next lesson, we will learn how to do exactly that.
Should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.